# Assessment-Scheduler
This Application is but on Java with Jasper Report as the printing layer.

# Application Development
The System is divided into two parts which are the admin software and the agent software which is available for agents to registration voter and allows voters to cast vote has the appointed period.
ADMIN
    • The first interface is the Login page which requires the admin username and password to access the controls in the welcome page.
    • The Second Interface is the Welcome page that contains navigation button to the Registration History, Register Post, Register Agent, Register Contestant, Register Voter, View Vote Result, Registration History, View Agent, View Voters, Confirm Registration, View Post and some other sub action page for result viewing enabling, Vote Enabling, Enable and disabled Agents and logout..
    • The Registration History gives the registered voters details in a tabular form with the Voter’s Reg ID, Surname, Date of Birth, Registration date, and the status to confirm if any action has been perform on the registration detail. There is a Fetch Parameters to simplify the category of voters’ detail that is needed, while the close button simple hide the page.
    • The Register Post require three(3) field to be filled, the system automatic generate a post code after the user has provide the post name and select session. Then the post can be saved or the uses close or clear the fields.
    • The Register Agent require eight(8) fields to be filled, the system automatic generate a username for the agent after the user has provide the first name, last name, address, phone number, location, system id and password. Then the information can be saved or the uses close or clear the fields.
    • The Contestant Registration require six(6) fields to be filled, the system automatic generate a contestant code for the contestant after the user has provide the full name, identity No, post contesting for, session contesting for and snap shot setup. Then the information can be saved or the uses close or clear the fields.
    • Registration Voters page is a page where the voters register and give all required information before proceeding. This page cannot be access without been a new user that has not registered before to the specify database. A confirm register dialog comes immediately the voter choose to register. The registration process require user to enter his/her first name, second name, other name, select age, gender, state of origin, local government, phone no maiden name, address, occupation, place of birth and marital status, the other requirement is the picture or passport of the registrar, both the thumb and index finger print of the register that will be supply four times each. After these then the user click either submit and save to continue or click the cancel button to close the page or decide to clear the entire fields for a fresh start.
    • Navigator Dialog, the navigator dialog displays when any among the row of voters is click, with a prompt to confirm editing of information. The navigator dialog as the name implies give the list of all operation that can be perform on voter’s information such as View, Grant Card, Disable Card, Enable Card and Delete Card information from the specify database.
    • The Voter Registration Details display all information of the registrar as it is available in the database and give the control to grant card to Voter.
    • The Agent Details page displays all information of all registered agent and can be filter via the fetch parameters.
    • The Post page displays all post that is registered.
    • The Poll Result page displays information about voting base on selected session and post with the information of the overall winner display in a session provided for the winner caption while each contestant poll result are display in a tabular form.
    • The Confirmation Page that display immediately the registration is complement or verify from the welcome page with the confirm registration button. The Confirm Registration Page allows the user to supply their Voters Identity Number (VIN) to confirm their registration status or progress. The other alternative of confirming registration is by clicking on the confirm by biometric which display a biometric dialog box to accept voter thumb or index print for verification if no user found the application will display and error message and go to the welcome page, if a match found for the supply finger print the application displays the Voters Confirmation Print.
    • Another page is the Update Registration Page to update all the user info except the finger print, picture and the voter id.
    • Some other sub action section are Enable Result, Enable Vote, Enable or Disable Agents, Logout and Exit button is use to closed the program or terminates it
AGENT
    • The first interface is the Login page which requires the admin username and password to access the controls in the welcome page.
    • The next page on the voter application is the welcome page that give a short description about the project, with navigation button to all other pages on the software, this navigation include: Registration, Update Registration, Read Voting Procedure, Vote and View Vote Result. 
    • The Third main page of this application is the Registration Page where the voters register and give all required information before proceeding. This page cannot be access without been a new user that has not registered before to the INEC database. A confirm register dialog comes immediately the voter choose to register. The registration process require user to enter his/her first name, second name, other name, select age, gender, state of origin, local government, phone no maiden name, address, occupation, place of birth and marital status, the other requirement is the picture or passport of the registrar, both the thumb and index finger print of the register that will be supply four times each. After these then the user click either submit and save to continue or click the cancel button to close the page or decide to clear the entire fields for a fresh start.
    • The page next page is the Confirmation Page that those display immediately the registration is complement or verify from the welcome page with the confirm registration button. The Confirm Registration Page allows the user to supply their Voters Identity Number (VIN) to confirm their registration status or progress. The other alternative of confirming registration is by clicking on the confirm by biometric which display a biometric dialog box to accept voter thumb or index print for verification if no user found the application will display and error message and go to the welcome page, if a match found for the supply finger print the application displays the Voters Confirmation Print.
    • The  Vote page require the voters to confirm their eligibility before proceeding to the main voting page, the voters is then required to select among many contestant which candidate he prefers to vote for in each offices or post. Then the final step is to click the submit button which triggers an alert dialog if any post is/are left vote for, voters can review their voted candidates before proceeding to submit the vote cast.
Note: Voter can only vote once in a session.
    • The Poll Result page displays information about voting base on selected session and post with the information of the overall winner display in a session provided for the winner caption while each contestant poll result are display in a tabular form. But for an agent it only displays the result of those that voted on the agent system.
    • Another page is the Update Registration Page to update all the user info except the finger print, picture and the voter id.
    • The last page is the Read Voting Procedure page that gives info and rule on how the voting process will take place.
    • The Exit button is use to closed the program or terminates it.
